---
layout: post
title:  "Release 8118"
date:   2016-02-03
categories: release
---

Revision 8118 has been designated a MESA release version.

We call your attention to four high level items.  Please consult the
full release notes, available in [this mailing list post][notes], to
learn more.

[notes]:http://example.com

+ Almost all extras routines in run\_star\_extras and
  run\_binary\_extras are now implemented as hooks, in a similar way
  to all other\_* routines.  If you use a custom run\_star\_extras,
  you need to slightly modify it for it to be compatible with this and
  future versions.

+ There has been a small change in how opacities are computed when
  blending Type1 and Type2 tables.

+ Several errors in the on-the-fly weak rate implementation have been
  corrected.  If you have been making use of these capabilities in
  r7624, please contact Josiah Schwab (jwschwab@berkeley.edu) for more
  details.

+ MESA's color module has now be extended.  You can output either the
  raw bolometric correction(s) or the absolute magnitude(s).  PGSTAR
  plots have also been added to plot magnitude-magnitude,
  color-magnitude and color-color plots.

+ A new pgstar plot "network" has been added to show total abundances
  of isotopes as a function of N vs Z and is a useful way to visualize
  the distribution of isotopes in your nuclear network.

+ We now can run the star tests with NaN traps enabled combined with
  pre-setting all dynamically allocated memory to hold NaNs.  This is
  very effective at showing up accesses to uninitialized data that the
  compiler can't catch.


A [ZIP file of this release][zip] is available for download.

[zip]:http://sourceforge.net/projects/mesa/files/releases/mesa-r8118.zip/download
